## Reflection and Insights Grained From Experience

Three months ago, Digital Humanities was not a course of study that I was familiar with. I did not have a lot of expectations coming into the class. I thought the class would use some text mining and other techniques to retrieve and analyze data from text. I don't know why I thought the class would cover this. I inferred that the class would be focused on digitizing data after processing it. The class met some of my expectations as we learned new methods of visualizing and digitizing data. Before taking the class, I had not had experience with or thought of using 3D printing and scanning, embroidery or fabrication as a way to visualize data. I also had the opportunity to see what different DH projects could look like. This was my first time seeing projects of this type and it allowed me to think about the ethics around displaying information about individuals who do not have a say in how they are being represented in a project. I had also not considered that you could create projects on the internet that have an intended audience and are explicit on the website. This was seen in the [Unmapping the Caribbean: Sanctuary and Sound](https://nyuds.maps.arcgis.com/apps/MapSeries/index.html?appid=489f1aee6b324a75b709d5d37f0cea2a) Digital Humanities project that we reviewed in class. This project explicitly stated that it was intended for individuals and rooted in the Caribbean and their allies. Users were encouraged not to proceed if they did not meet this criteria. The project went on to display audio clips that said "This map is for you" in different Caribbean dialects. At first, I did not understand the logic of this even as a native speaker of Patois, one of the dialects that was displayed on the page. However, after some thought, I realized that there could be some valid reason why there was an intended audience. This could include that the writer wants their work to be interacted with by people who are connected to the work that they are doing and will have a stronger sense of appreciation when they engage with the project. It could also mean that they did not want these dialects to be mimicked or ridiculed in a way that is offensive to native speakers. After completing the course, I have found that while I am not interested in working in the Digital Humanities space, I do have a new appreciation for these projects and enjoy exploring the data that they present. I did not think that I was the type of person to be interested in exploring data but the creative methods of data visualization that are often used have drawn me to explore these projects. Coming into the class, I had experience working with minimal computing and markdown files but this class has shown me that it is more useful than I thought and I plan to use it more in the future for my smaller projects. 

Throughout the course, I had the opportunity to work on two projects. For each project, I tried to tell a story with my work. For the printing in prisons workshop, I tried to depict a picture of what it looked like to be an incarcerated individual at Eastern State Penitentiary who had the opportunity to participate in baseball games and express yourself creatively in the prison newsletter, *The Umpire*. I believe I did a good job at doing this as I was able to capture the voice of Jingles in my report by showing his life history and origins as a bookkeeper and drawing a parallel between the skills he had outside of prison and how he transferred and utilized them to make meaningful contributions to *The Umpire* through Poetry. For this project, I wished that I could have had more time to dedicate to building my page so it had more of an interactive element. I have the background skills to do so and would have learned a lot while researching to do this. I think this would have made my project more meaningful and allow me to utilize the digital data visualization elements that we saw in the different Digital Humanities Projects that we saw in the course. If I could redo the project to include this, I would have maybe opted to have some audio embeddings of some of the poems that were written in the umpire or maybe categorized the poem based on themes that the user could interact with by clicking around a map of related concepts on a webpage. For our Education Commons Project, my team and I did a good job at coming up with a dataset that we wanted to represent. We created a Christmas tree that showcased the frequency of holiday mentions during each month of the year. If I could redo this project, my only change would be the material that was used. I think would does not evoke the same emotions from someone that a toy or teddy bear or stuffed tree-shaped toy. Given that the purpose of our project was to try to get users to feel a sense of compassion for the inmate through shared experiences, I believe a tree-shaped stuffed toy would create a more relatable Christmas feel via its softness and resemblance to something you would be gifted as a child when compared to a wooden tree. 

These projects allowed me to think about several themes covered in the class. We digitized prison record data through the Printing in Prisons Website and this ties back to our discussion of archiving data and different methods that could be used to do this. We spoke of digitizing data that could be otherwise lost or degraded. One example that comes to mind is the microfiches that the Penn Library has that are being degraded. Digitization is one way that we learned that this data could be archived and prevented from being lost forever. Through our projects, we also had the opportunity to add images to our projects. This ties back to our discussion of metadata where we went through an exercise of building metadata to images using meaning full tags. We were able to explore this through the printing in-prison exercise where we took some pages of the newsletter and generated metadata for each chapter. I was able to demonstrate what I learned about metadata when naming the images in my projects making sure that each image is accurately represented. Our trip to the Van-Pelt basement, where we saw the process of digitizing books contributed to our learning as we were able to hear about some of the challenges with digitizing data. For example, in the book that we saw each page was textured. We discussed that this would be difficult to digitize as it is not possible to digitally represent the textures of the book. The user would not have the same experience observing the book if it were to be digitized. We also say an anatomy book which was similar to a flip book and had a level of interactivity that could not be replicated if the book were to be digitized. The demonstrations would also not be as clear. Books such as this one were probably not mass-produced so it is important to properly store them to ensure they persist over time. However, this is difficult as books degrade over time and the digitization process for books of this sort is difficult. In a case such as this, we discussed that it is best to handle the book with care and have professionals replenish it from time to time with different book preservation strategies. 




Here is a list of some of the work that I was able to achieve in this course: 
- [Looking Forward after this experience](looking_forward.html)
- [Printing In Prison Project](https://printinginprisons.org/blog/williams-s/)

